Assassination of Ali Khamenei

On 28 February 2026, Ali Khamenei, the supreme leader of Iran, was assassinated as part of a series of Israeli airstrikes around Tehran aimed at high-ranking Iranian officials. Khamenei's death was confirmed by the Iranian government on 1 March.

His death occurred as part of a wider joint operation by the United States and Israel, using strategic location intelligence from the US Central Intelligence Agency to determine the whereabouts of several leaders. According to retired Major-General Denis Thompson, Canadian forces from the Combined Aerospace Operations Center of the 1 Canadian Air Division also provided intelligence support for strikes during the assassination as well as intelligence support during the wider war as a whole, although the Canadian Department of National Defence denied any involvement in Operation Epic Fury. Satellite imagery suggested that Khamenei's residence in the city was severely damaged during the attack.

Following initial Israeli reports that Khamenei had been killed in the operation, US president Donald Trump and Israeli prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu stated that Khamenei was dead. After Iranian state media confirmed his death, the government announced 40 days of mourning and seven days of public holiday. The Fars News Agency announced that Khamenei's daughter, son-in-law, grandchild, and daughter-in-law had also been killed in the strikes. Khamenei's wife, Mansoureh Khojasteh Bagherzadeh, died from her injuries on 2 March.

As Khamenei's death was confirmed, many Iranian civilians went out to celebrate in the streets. Elsewhere in Iran, thousands gathered on streets in mourning and stated on social media that they were mourning his death. Pro-Iranian protests and riots occurred in multiple countries.

A previous attempt to assassinate Khamenei by Israel during the Twelve-Day War on 15 June 2025 was reportedly vetoed by Trump, according to unnamed US officials.

Preparations

After the Twelve-Day War in June 2025, Khamenei became increasingly reclusive. The bunker in his compound was so deep that its elevator took more than five minutes to reach it, making opportunities to strike very rare.

For months before the attack, the CIA had been tracking Khamenei’s locations and patterns and had learned that a meeting of senior officials was to take place with Khamenei in attendance. The strikes were planned to coincide with the meeting. Israeli officials stated that Khamenei was seen above ground at his official residence shortly before the assassination.

Airstrikes

The strike on Khamenei's compound was carried out during daylight, with Israeli jets dropping 30 bombs on the site along with Blue Sparrow air-launched ballistic missiles.

Strikes targeted strategic facilities and important Iranian officials, including Khamenei's compound, which was among those most affected by Israeli strikes in Tehran. Satellite imagery suggested that the building was severely damaged.

At the same time, attacks were carried out in at least two other locations in the city to ensure the success of the operation.

Initial reports
Conflicting reports

Following the initial strikes, several outlets began reporting that Khamenei was dead, citing Israeli government sources.

An unnamed Israeli official said that Khamenei's body was located following the strikes and that a photograph of the body was shown to Israeli prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu.

These reports were initially disputed by Iranian sources, with Iran's Ministry of Foreign Affairs spokesman Esmail Baghaei stating that Khamenei was “safe and sound,” and reports indicating that he had been transferred to a secure location outside Tehran.

Netanyahu stated that there were “growing signs” pointing to Khamenei's death. US president Donald Trump echoed these claims, calling the then-unconfirmed assassination “justice for the people of Iran.” Iranian news agencies later again stated that Khamenei was alive and still commanding the situation.

Shortly before midnight in Iran on 28 February, an Israeli official said that Khamenei had been killed in the air strikes and that his body had been recovered and identified by intelligence sources.

Confirmation

Early on 1 March, the Iranian Supreme National Security Council and Iranian state media announced that Khamenei had been killed, despite previous denials.

The state declared 40 days of mourning and a seven-day national holiday.

The Fars News Agency reported that Khamenei's daughter, son-in-law Mesbah Bagheri Kani, grandchild Zahra Mohammadi Golpayegani, and daughter-in-law Zahra Haddad-Adel were also killed in the strikes on his compound. On 2 March it was reported that Khamenei's wife, Mansoureh Khojasteh Bagherzadeh, also died from injuries sustained in the strikes.

Aftermath

Because the position of Supreme Leader is appointed by the Assembly of Experts and the position of Vice Supreme Leader was abolished in 1989, Khamenei had no officially appointed successor.

At Khamenei's funeral it was announced that the Interim Leadership Council would include Assembly of Experts member Alireza Arafi, President Masoud Pezeshkian, and Chief Justice Gholam-Hossein Mohseni-Ejei.

The Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps reportedly pushed to appoint a permanent leader quickly. Reports indicated that authorities were in the final stages of choosing a new supreme leader. According to the New York Times, Mojtaba Khamenei, the son of Ali Khamenei, was considered the most likely successor.

The Fars News Agency reported that Khamenei would be buried in Mashhad. The state funeral was scheduled to take place in Tehran and Mashhad between 4 and 6 March 2026 but was later postponed.

Reactions
Domestic

Iranian president Masoud Pezeshkian described the killing as a “great crime” and said it would not go unanswered.

Civilian reaction inside Iran was mixed. Some people celebrated in the streets after the confirmation of Khamenei's death, with celebrations reported in cities including Isfahan, Karaj, Kermanshah, Qazvin, Sanandaj, Shiraz, and Izeh. In Dehloran, people were filmed cheering as a statue of Khamenei was toppled.

Security forces were deployed to prevent unrest, and footage reportedly showed them opening fire on celebrants.

Supporters of Khamenei mourned his death near the Imam Reza shrine in Mashhad. Photos and videos showed people crying and gathering in mourning in cities such as Mashhad, Tehran, Isfahan, Shiraz, and Yasuj.

The red Shia flag of revenge was raised on the Jamkaran Mosque.

Maryam Rajavi, co-leader of the dissident group MEK, described Khamenei's death as the “end of religious tyranny” and called for a transitional government.

Exiled crown prince Reza Pahlavi declared the “end of the Islamic Republic” shortly after the announcement of Khamenei’s death and called on Iranians to take to the streets.

International

Reports of Khamenei's assassination were followed by demonstrations across Asia, the Middle East, Europe, and North America.

Reactions varied widely. In some cities people gathered for mourning rallies and protests against the United States and Israel, while in others smaller groups expressed support for the strikes.

Across the United States, demonstrations occurred in cities including Washington, D.C., New York, Los Angeles, Atlanta, Chicago, and Boston.

In India, thousands joined protests and prayer gatherings organized by Shia Muslim communities in Jammu and Kashmir, New Delhi, and other areas.

Protests were also reported in Bangladesh, Greece, Iraq, Morocco, Nigeria, Pakistan, South Korea, Spain, Turkey, and the United Kingdom.